Well, we're movin' on up
Movin' on up
To the East Side
To a deluxe apartment
in the sky
Movin' on up
To the East Side
We finally got
a piece of the pie
Fish don't fry
in the kitchen
Beans don't burn
on the grill
Took a whole lot of tryin'
Just to get up that hill
Now we're up
in the big leagues
Gettin' our turn at bat
As long as we live,
it's you and me, baby
There ain't nothin' wrong
with that
We're movin' on up
Movin' on up
To the East Side
To a deluxe apartment
in the sky
Movin' on up
To the East Side
We finally got
a piece of the pie
Oh!
Don't you move
this pillow no more.
George, can't you take
your nap in the bedroom?
Florence just
vacuumed in here.
So what?
I'm a clean sleeper.
George!
Look, Weezy, it's Sunday.
I ain't doing nothing
today but relaxing.
Now, I got my pillow,
I got my...
What happened to my beer?
Don't ask me.
Did you take my beer?
Oh, was that yours?
I poured that out.
You what?
That was good beer.
Sure was.
I poured it into me.
Ain't nothing sacred
around here?
Do you want me to fix
the sandwiches now,
Mrs. Jefferson?
Yes, please, Florence.
Good, because I'm hungry.
George, they're not for you.
Helen and Jenny
are coming down here.
We are helping Jenny
pick out her china pattern.
Oh, sure, that kind of work
makes you real hungry.
Why did you invite them
down here, anyway?
Because I thought
you'd be down at the store.
Can't you find
something to do?
I got something to do.
Good. What is it?
Nothing.
And I need
all day to do it.
Oh, hello, Mr. Bentley.
Good morning,
Mrs. Jefferson.
Is the master at home?
Yes.
Oh, good.
May I speak with him?
No.
Oh, there you are.
I'll bet you're wondering
what to do with
yourself today, eh?
No, I ain't.
Good.
Because I met
this fellow at the UN,
a charming chap
with the Greek delegation,
Nick Dapapopolis.
No, it's Dick Napadopolis.
Or is it Papadop...
Bentley!
Anyway, this Greek geezer,
said he could get me
tickets to anything,
and I told him I'd love
to see the play Chicago.
Weezy, why'd you let him in?
Unfortunately,
he thought I said,
"I'd love to see
Chicago play."
So he got me
three tickets
to the Chicago Bears
football game with the Jets,
but I can't go today.
Oh, why didn't you
give them back?
I couldn't. He was
recalled to Greece
in a bit of a hurry
as a result of
a navel incident.
Oh, that sounds serious.
Yes. He tried
to remove a ruby
from a Turkish belly
dancer's bellybutton.
Why are you telling us
this on my day off?
Well, I thought you might
be able to use the tickets.
I know how you love
a good scrap.
Not today, Bentley.
Today I'd appreciate
a little peace and quiet.
Are you sure?
Sorry, Bentley, no sale.
Oh, Mr. Jefferson...
No. No.
Mr. Jefferson, wait!
Mr. Jefferson,
they're very good seats,
he said.
High up in the very
last row.
That way, you don't
have to look up
when they throw
the ball in the air.
The only play
I want to see
is the Jefferson touchdown
on that sofa. Huh.
George, can't you please
move your nap
to the bedroom?
I got a better idea.
Why don't you move your
lunch to the kitchen.
I can't serve
the Willises' lunch
in our kitchen!
Well, serve it
in their kitchen.
Hi.
Oh, hi. Come in.
Hi, Louise. I hope
we're not too early.
Wrong as usual.
Oh, hello there,
Mr. Jefferson.
Oh, I didn't know
you'd be here
today, George.
Oh, that makes two of us.
I didn't know
you'd be here either.
How's Tom?
I don't know, I'm not
speaking to him.
Finally wised up, huh?
Huh.
Daddy is not
himself today.
Why? What happened?
We went to a party
last night
and Tom behaved
like an idiot.
I thought you said
he wasn't himself.
Just ignore him.
What happened?
Remember I told you about
the last party we went to,
where Tom had
too much to drink?
The one where he gave
his impersonation
of Jacques Cousteau?
How'd he do that?
He stood on his head
in the punchbowl.
But two drinks
are Tom's limit.
So before we left,
he promised me that
he wouldn't touch a drop.
Then when he got there,
he said he felt funny without
something in his hands.
So he ordered one martini,
just to hold.
Well, what was
wrong with that?
Well, he held it
for two minutes
and then decided
that his stomach
could hold it better.
As it turned out,
his stomach held
three of them.
Yeah, but not for long.
He spent
the rest of the night
in the bathroom.
Girl, he turned green!
That's better than his
normal color.
George, will you
cut it out?
I'm paying him
a compliment!
Uh... Hi, Tom.
We were just
talking about you.
Huh! He still looks
white to me.
I'd like a quiet word
with Helen.
Oh, well, come in.
Helen, my darling,
I have a wonderful
surprise for you.
You remember flushing
the car keys down
the toilet last night?
Oh, come on, Helen.
Harry Bentley
gave me tickets for
the football game today.
How about coming with me?
I'm in no mood
to watch grown men
getting paid for bumping
into each other.
Aw, Helen, I said
I was sorry.
Anybody can be sorry
after he's done something.
Why can't you be sorry
before you do something?
What?
Oh, Tom,
just go on to your
football game, okay?
Hi.
Hello, stuff.
JENNY: Hi.
TOM: Say, Lionel!
How about you?
I've got tickets for
the Jets and Bears.
You want to come?
Hey, that's a great...
No, thanks, Mr. Willis.
I'm going to stay here
and help Jenny
pick out our china.
Oh, that's all right.
You don't have to stay
just because of me.
Great. Besides,
picking out china
is women's work.
It's what?
What I mean is they do
such a wonderful job.
Come on, Lionel.
Let's go.
Are you sure you don't
want me to stay here?
Oh, sure. Enjoy the game.
Yeah.
George, why don't
you go with them?
The air will do you good.
If everybody would clear
the hell out of here,
I'd have
all the air I need.
Lionel would like you
to go with him.
Wouldn't you, Lionel?
Oh, not if he
doesn't want...
Hey, come on, Pop.
It'll be a great game.
I ain't going
to no game.
Look, we'll have
a great time.
How are we gonna get there?
You know the cabs
are on strike.
I ain't going on no subway.
No problem.
They've got special charter
buses going to the stadium.
I don't believe in buses.
Aw, come on.
We'll let you
ride up front.
Hey, Pop.
Remember how you used
to take me to the games
when I was a little kid?
I don't want to go.
Oh, please, Pop?
Hey, look, it will be
just like old times.
Hmm. Yeah, it would,
wouldn't it?
Okay, you win.
But you got to
promise me one thing.
What's that?
You won't make me
get up every 10 minutes to
take you to the bathroom.
Oh, I'll never forget
our first set of china.
Who picked out
the pattern?
Texaco.
Oh, I think this pattern
will look real good
with the crystal.
LOUISE: Oh, yes.
So do I!
HELEN: What do
you think, Jenny?
Jenny?
Huh?
What do you think?
Oh, uh...
I think I'm going to go
get a drink of water.
For somebody
who's going to be getting
all this nice stuff
she sure don't
act too happy.
I better see
if she's okay.
Jenny's probably
just nervous.
Weddings can do that
to you, you know.
No, I don't know.
The only time
anybody ever asked me
to pick out china,
it was on a map.
Jenny? Is there
something wrong?
Hmm. No. I'm just
thirsty, that's all.
Well, you've hardly said
two words all afternoon.
Now, what's bothering you?
Well...
Well, it's Lionel.
It's Lionel?
What's he done?
Nothing.
Well, that explains
everything.
Well, no, I don't mean
that it's Lionel.
It... It's me.
What have you done?
Nothing!
Now, Jenny.
If we're going to get
to the bottom...
I mean, I used to be
so sure about Lionel and me.
But now, I...
I'm scared.
Scared about what?
I don't know
if I really love him.
Oh, come on.
You've just got
the blues, that's all.
You'll get over it.
No, I won't.
I should have
wanted Lionel
to stay to help me pick
out the china today, but...
Why did I let him go?
Oh, there's nothing
wrong with that.
Maybe I didn't
want him around.
Well, I feel the same way
about your daddy sometimes.
But that doesn't mean
I don't love him.
Yeah, but with you,
it's different.
You're an old
married couple.
For instance, the other day
I was waiting at school
for Lionel to pick me up.
Mmm-hmm.
All of a sudden,
I got real scared.
I couldn't
picture his face.
For a couple
of minutes there,
I honestly couldn't remember
what he looked like.
Well, he's black.
That ought to narrow
it down.
This is nothing
to joke about.
I was beginning to think
there was something
wrong with my brain.
No, honey,
there's something wrong
with your feet.
What?
They're getting cold.
What does that mean?
It means, Jenny,
that you've got a bad case
of pre-marriage jitters.
No, it's not
as simple as that.
Last week,
I almost went out
with Michael Harding.
Who's Michael Harding?
Ooh, a fine brother
in my sociology class.
Every girl I know
wants to date him.
Last week, he asked me.
Did you go?
No, I didn't.
Oh, well,
that settles it.
You didn't
go out with him because
you still love Lionel.
No, I think I didn't
go out with Michael
because I didn't
want to upset his wife.
Are you serious?
I don't know!
Why don't I want
Lionel around?
Mrs. Jefferson. I just
went upstairs to see if...
Oh, Mrs. Willis!
You're here.
What a relief.
It is? Why?
Because if you're here,
it means you can't be there.
That's true.
You see, when I gave
Mr. Willis the tickets
he said he was going
to take you to the football
game on the bus.
Oh. I didn't want to go.
Well, thank goodness
for that.
I was just listening
to the police calls
on my shortwave radio.
And they said
that a charter bus
from Manhattan
had crashed on the way
to the stadium.
What?
Yes, they said a lot
of people were badly hurt.
Some of them killed,
I'm afraid.
My God!
So you can see
why I'm so glad
you and Tom
didn't go to that game.
But Tom did go.
So did George.
And Lionel.
They could all
be on that bus.
I just want to find out
if they're in the stadium.
Yes, I know
that you don't,
but this is a matter
of life and death.
Yeah.
Oh, please.
Thank you.
They're gonna page them.
Thank goodness.
I've tried every
station on the dial
and there's not
one mention
of the accident.
Shall I get
my shortwave?
We might hear something
more on the police calls.
Would you, please?
Glad to.
I'll be right back.
I'll never forgive myself.
It's all my fault.
Oh, how can you
say that, Louise?
Because I made George
get out of the house.
He didn't want to
go to that football game.
He just wanted to
lie there on the couch.
Now, Louise...
I'd give anything to see him
lying there on that couch,
stretched out peacefully.
I mean, uh, sitting up!
Laughing and talking.
What am I doing here?
Tom begged me
to go with him.
I should be
out there with him.
Oh, please, please,
let them be in the stadium.
All right, you all come
and get some coffee.
Oh, no, take it away.
Who can eat
at a time like this?
Now, you all listen to me.
There's a cab strike
in this city, ain't it?
That means there must be
a hundred buses
going to that stadium.
And our men
were on one of them.
Well, 99 of them
got there safe.
So now just stop
being hysterical.
And why don't you
have a little faith?
You know He do
answer prayer.
You're right.
Thank you, Florence.
Yeah, yeah,
hold it, hold it.
Yes?
Thank you.
No one answered the page.
Oh, my God.
They were on that bus.
You know, I really
wanted to see that game.
Me too.
Will you all
knock it off?
It ain't my fault
we missed the bus.
It sure is!
You were the one
who said he was freezing
and had to have
some hot coffee.
Well, you're the one that
said we had plenty of time.
For coffee.
But then you had
to go to the bathroom.
And you took forever.
Look. When I go
to the bathroom,
I don't watch the clock.
Come on, Pop, admit it.
You wanted us
to miss that bus.
Well, I'd rather be sitting
here with a cold glass
than sitting in that
stadium with a cold tail.
I'll have another
Coke, please.
Coke.
Why don't you have
a real drink?
I'm respecting
Helen's wishes.
You mean her orders.
No such thing.
It was a mutual agreement
between two intelligent,
civilized people.
I agreed not
to drink so much.
And Helen...
Agreed not to kill me.
Don't laugh.
When you get married,
you'll find that
compromise is the only way
to settle things.
Oh, don't listen
to him, Lionel.
He just don't know
how to handle women.
And I suppose you do?
You damn right!
Look, in our family,
we all know who's boss.
Right, Lionel?
That's right, Mr. Willis.
Whatever Mom says, goes.
Well, Helen and I
have a good marriage.
Give and take all the way.
Yeah, you take
whatever she gives.
Look.
George, I am not
afraid of Helen.
Prove it! Take a drink.
Well, I... I don't
feel like one.
Chicken.
Pop, Mr. Willis just
doesn't want a drink.
Now, that doesn't
mean he's scared.
How do you think
he got so white?
His wife
scared him into it.
I'll show you.
Bartender!
Three Scotches.
Oh, no, thanks.
I'll stick with beer.
I'm still working
on this one.
I wasn't ordering
for you two.
GEORGE: Uh-oh!
All I want to know
is if he was on that bus.
POLICE DISPATCHER OVER RADIO:
Car 27, we have a 10-30
at 75th and Madison.
Please investigate.
That's a robbery
in progress.
But I phoned
all the hospitals.
They said call the police.
And now you won't tell me
anything either.
But I'm his wife.
Thank you for nothing.
They can't give us
any information,
until they get the names
of all the people
on the bus.
I'm going
out of my mind.
When are we going
to hear some news?
Well, like my daddy
used to say,
"No news is good news.
"Unless, of course,
you're waiting for a call
from the governor."
Well, I didn't say it.
My daddy did.
POLICE DISPATCHER:
We have a 10-10,
at 83rd Road
and Queens Boulevard.
All cars in vicinity
proceed immediately.
What's a 10-10?
Oh, not to worry.
It's just a murder.
"Just a murder"?
Oh, I didn't
mean it like that.
Murder's one of
your best crimes.
That is, it's one of
the bigger crimes.
It's very popular.
That's not
what I mean either.
I mean, uh...
POLICEMAN OVER RADIO:
This is Car 93.
Where's that ambulance?
This poor slob's
laying in the gutter
bleeding like a stuck pig.
Oh!
Mr. Bentley,
take that radio
in the kitchen.
It's scaring the hell
out of everybody.
But, Florence,
we want to hear...
Don't worry.
We'll listen for you.
If there's any news,
we'll holler.
You know, Florence,
all this reminds me
of Dr. Cheswick.
Who's Dr. Cheswick?
He's this friend
of ours in London.
And one summer, he went
on holiday to Brighton.
When it was time
for him to return,
he phoned his family
and told them
he'd be arriving
the next morning by rail.
Well, that night
they heard that the train
had been in a wreck.
Oh.
They were up all night
worrying about it.
But as fate
would have it,
Dr. Cheswick hadn't
taken the train.
He'd decided to take
the bus instead.
Wasn't he lucky?
Not really. It was the bus
that the train hit.
Oh, I'm going to
call the police again.
They must know
something by now.
Oh.
Oh, everything is
gonna be all right, baby.
Don't cry.
Oh, but I want to cry.
It makes me happy.
What?
I'm crying because
I'm worried about Lionel.
Isn't that just fantastic?
I don't understand.
Well, it proves
that I love him.
I guess it does.
I know one thing.
I'll never forget
what Lionel
looks like again.
Oh, Lionel, Lionel!
You must really love him.
Because your daddy's
out there too
and you haven't
mentioned him at all.
Oh, Mom, I'm sorry.
I love Daddy.
I'm worried about him too.
Oh. Of course
you are, baby.
I understand.
Nothing. They still won't
give us any information.
It's not fair.
Here we are,
safe and sound,
and our men could be
out there somewhere
in terrible pain.
I don't know
about you guys,
but I'm feeling
no pain at all.
Well, Willis, you coming?
No, you two go ahead.
I'll wait
for Helen upstairs.
Are you gonna stand up
to that woman or not?
I certainly am.
Good.
Open the door, Lionel.
Hey, Pop!
I forgot my key.
Oh, you don't need a key.
I'll break the door down.
Well, that was
easier than I thought.
Daddy!
Tom!
Lionel!
Tom, you're...
That's right, Helen.
I've been drinking.
What do you think
of that, madam?
I think it's wonderful!
George! You were right!
I told you I know
how to handle women.
Oh, Mr. Jefferson.
Ah!
Oh, Lionel, I love you.
I love you.
I do. I love you.
Yeah, Jenny.
I already know that.
No, you don't.
This is all new.
Oh, yeah? Well, um...
Let's go talk about it
in private, huh?
Oh, Mr. Jefferson,
you know...
Oh, Lionel!
Oh, thank you, Lord!
BENTLEY: Lionel!
Oh, George,
you're all right!
Mr. Willis!
You know, I never thought
I'd say this, Mr. Jefferson,
but I sure am glad
to see you.
Mr. J, you're alive!
Of course, I'm alive!
Oh, Tom, I'm so glad
you weren't hurt
on that bus.
What bus?
The bus to the game.
There was a bad accident
and we thought
you might be killed.
Oh, we didn't go
to the game.
You didn't?
No! George made us
miss our bus.
So we spent the afternoon
at Charley's Bar.
You missed the bus?
Yeah! Well...
And you spent the afternoon
down at Charley's Bar?
Yeah, but...
And you didn't call
to let us know?
Stand up to her, George!
You just stay
out of this.
Now, listen, Weezy...
We were up here
worried to death
and you were
down there having fun?
Go on! Tell her off!
You be quiet!
Look, Weezy.
I didn't mean it, honest.
I'm sorry.
That's telling her, George.
Show her who's boss.
Tom.
What?
Shut up.
Yes, dear.
Look, I said I was sorry!
What do I have to do
to make it up to you?
You and Tom will sit
there at that table
and pick out
some china patterns.
We'll be glad to do it.
Oh, sure!
We'll help you.
You are not
helping anybody.
You're going to do it
all by yourselves.
What?
What's sauce for the goose
is sauce for the turkey.
Come on, Helen.
We're going out.
Where you going?
Maybe to the movies.
Maybe to a discotheque.
Hey! Why don't you all
try that singles bar
round the corner?
You might get lucky.
Thank you, Florence.
Hey!
Hey, yourself!
Now it's your turn
to worry.
I say, I rather like
this pattern here.
Don't you like that one?
You and your
football game!
Yeah! You're the one
that started
this whole thing.
Get him, George!
What's that?
I don't hear a thing.
LOUISE: The Jeffersons was
recorded on tape in front of
a studio audience.